---
title: Sugar Notes
---

# Sugar intake

Daily Sugar intake shall be b/w 6 teaspoons to 9 teaspoons. 1 teaspoon is equal
to 4g.  Woman sugar intake shall be 6 teaspoon, Man sugar intake shall be 9
teaspoon, Kid sugar intake shall be 3 teaspoon

# Fructose and not Sugar is the enemy

Fructose does these to us

- make us eat more. As human we are designed to consume large amounts of
fructose to save for future dangers (like famine).
- converts directly to fat
- make us sick. Cause inflammation.

Table Sugar is 50% fructose.

# Fat is healthy

Ghee is stable, saturated fats that does not change structure at high heat. It
also have anti-inflammatory and ani-fungal properties. Coconut oil is also a
good option for cooking.

Poly unsaturated fats like canola, safflower and sunflow shall be avoided.

# Hidden Sugar

Following items have hidden sugars

- Fresh and dried fruits
- Fruit juices
- Tomato ketchip and sauces (balsamic, thousand island)
- Chocolate, soft drink. A single can of soda (12 ounces) has 10 teaspoons of sugar.

# Label Reading Guidline

Use these

- If sugar is the first or the second ingredient, there is a big issue
- Look out for sugar in the ingredient - corn syrup, high fructose corn syrup
(hfcs), agave, fruit puree, fruit pulp
- With dairy, the first 4.7 g per 100 g is lactose and is OK. 

# Thai food

Thai good is drenched in palm sugar and you shoud stay away from it.

# Food ideas

- Walnut oil on yogurt
- Cinnamon in yougurt
- Infused extra virgin oil on salads
- Cheese grilled with redbell pepper
