---
Title: Resume
---

# Jay Rajput

jayrajput@gmail.com (919-289-9529)

## Summary

PHP/C++ GUI developer and Telecom OAM/EMS engineer.  Expert in PHP and C++.
Comfortable with HTML/CSS, Javascript/Dojo, Zend, Linux, Shell Scripting, SOAP,
MySQL, Python and Linux.  Familiar with Perl, Windows Power Shell, Lisp
(Scheme), XML/XSLT and multiple Linux tools.  Interested in GUI design,
automation, OAM and programming.  Total experience of 12+ years.

Keywords: C/C++, Python, PHP, Perl, bash, MySQL, Linux, open source, HTML,
Javascript, CSS, Zend/Dojo, git, MVC, Laravel

## Skills

### MMI/Web Services

[REST] Developed REST based architecture to support Machine to Machine
Interface (MMI)

[SOAP] Developed C++/GSOAP based secure SOAP server.

[PHP] Developed PHP/Zend based secure SOAP client and secure SOAP server.
Inherited/added to the Zend based SOAP client and server.
    
### GUI Design/Development

[PHP] Developed GUI framework using Zend Model View Controller architecture and
OOP (Object Oriented Programming).

[Javascript/Dojo] Developed AJAX based GUI using Dojo and multiple Dojox
widget.

[HTML/CSS] Usage and understanding of HTML/CSS to work with the Dojo and
solving multiple GUI issues.

[C++] C++ based SOAP server.

### OAM/EMS

[EMS] Understanding of EMS framework and various aspects of  fault management,
configuration management, accounting management, performance management and
security management (FCAPS).

[OAM] Developed GUI for different Managed Objects in the products.  Managed
Object helped customer to conceptualize the product.

### Security

[SOAP] Developed C++/GSOAP based secure SOAP server and PHP based secure SOAP
client using WSSE standards. 

[PHP] Developed PHP based user session management (authentication and
authorization).  Wrote code to avoid SQL injection attacks.

### Performance Optimization

[MySQL] Optimized MySQL queries in the project.  Understanding of MySQL tools
on how to debug and fix bad queries.

[PHP] Optimized PHP/Zend code using PHP Xdebug and other debugging techniques.

### Automation

[Python] Developed automated test suite for network based application.

[PHP] Automated Unit Test using PHPUnit. Code coverage utilities and various
other reports.

[Ansible] Ansible scripts to manage 700+ servers created using Open Nebula and
KVM.

## Experience Summary

### Jan, 2010 - present: Aricent, Gurgaon/USA

Unix based PHP and Telecom OAM development for a new product.  Developed GUI
and Machine to Machine Interface for LTE/4G protocol project.  Implemented REST
based Machine to Machine Interface. Worked on PHPUnit and PHP CLI. Worked on
Python based test cases automation. 

### Dec, 2005 - Dec, 2009: Aricent, Gurgaon/USA

Unix based PHP and C++ GUI/EMS framework.  Linux/Apache/MySQL/PHP (LAMP)
development with Zend/Dojo and C++ based SOAP server backend.

### Aug, 2003 - Dec, 2005: Infosys, Bangalore

Windows based C++ development.  Worked on database layers, web services, ASP
pages for a soft switch.  Solved challenging problem like memory leaks, logging
performance enhancement and real time customer issues.

## Employment Summary

| Start Date | End Date  | Employer | Designation        | 
|------------|-----------|----------|--------------------|
| Dec, 2005  | Present   | Aricent  | Software Developer | 
| Aug, 2003  | Dec, 2005 | Infosys  | Software Developer | 

## Education

|Exam | Institute   | University                | Year of Passing | Marks (%) |
|-----|-------------|---------------------------|-----------------|-----------|
|B.E  | A.E.C, Agra | Dr.B.R.A University, Agra | 2003            | 80        |
|XII  | Dr.V.S.E.C  | U.P. Board                | 1998            | 73        |
|X    | Dr.V.S.E.C  | U.P. Board                | 1996            | 70        |
