---
title: Text email
---

Mutt is a text based email client and I have been successfully using it since
few days. My enthusiasm level is too high as I am able to just save amazing
amount of time. Here is how I got my configuration done:

I use MUTT only as an email client to read and write the email. The job of
retreiving the emails and sending the email are are done by fetchmail and
msmtp. I also use procmail in addition to mutt, fetchmail and msmtp. The
procmail is strictly not needed, but the every tutorial I read on the internet
was using procmail and I also ended up using it.

Configuration of mutt, procmail, fetchmail and msmtp by editing their
configuration files.

I also use following mutt addon to make my life easier

- urlviewer (to display the urls in the emails)
- feh  (to view images)
- elinks (to view html email)

The installation of all the components are done using yum install.

~~~
sudo yum install mutt procmail fetchmail msmtp urlview feh elinks
~~~

Al the configuration files can be seen in the git repository.

Files which needs to be edited

- ~/.muttrc (Mutt configuration file)
- ~/.fetchmailrc (fetchmail configuration file)
- ~/.procmailrc  (procmail configuration file)
- ~/.msmtp   (msmtp - needed for sending emails)
- ~/mailcap  (mail cap configuration - need for different MIME types)
- ~/.urlviewer

# Reading mails

Readin can be done in two views in mutt

- Index view (showing all the emails without their content)
- Pager view (showing single email with the content of email)


## Flags and their meaning

~~~
+ Sent only to me
T Sent to me and others
C Cced to you
F from you
N new mail
O old mail
D message is deleted
! message is flagged
* message is tagged
~~~

## Common commands

~~~
? help
^L refresh screen
~~~

## Index view commands

~~~
j Move down
k Move up
= go to the top
* go to the last email
<tab> move to next unread mail
C-r move to next thread and mark this thread as read
P jump to parent message
Esc v collapse thread
/ search for a mail
n go to next mail matching the search
m compose a mail
r reply
g reply all
q exit
c change to a different mailbox (like sent or postpone)
l show message matching a pattern
<Return> show message
~~~

## Pager view commands

~~~
Space move to next page
enter move to next line
-     move back a page
a     view attachment
f1    view URLS (this is configurable and I have mapped it to f1>
i     move back to the index view
j     go to next email
k     to to last email
~~~

# Writing mail

## How to write a new mail

Hit m to compose a mail. Provide value for To, Cc and subject. When down mutt will open a new mail in an editor.
Once done with the editor close the editor (for vim hit ZZ), mutt will ask what to do next:

~~~
y send mail
p postpone mail (mail will be sent in postpone folder, similar to outlook drafts)
q abort 
~~~

## How to respond to a mail

Hit these to reply to a mail and then follow the steps similar to use for writing a new mail

~~~
r reply only to the sender
g reply all
f forward mail
b bounce
a attach a file
A attach mails
~~~
