---
title: XSLT
---

XSLT notes inspired by other posts on internet and books I read on XSLT.

# XSLT Design Goals

- XSLT Stylesheet should be an XML document
- XSLT language should be based on pattern matching
- XSLT should be designed to be free of side effects. (Concept of functional programming, immutable variables)
- Instead of looping, XSLT uses iteration and recursion.

# XML Basics

- An XML document must be contained in a single element
- XML has two programming interfaces DOM (Document Object Model) and SAX(Simple API for XML).
- All elements must be nested
- All attributes must be quoted
- XML tags are case sensitive
- Empty tags can contain the end marker
- XML uses namespaces to distinguish between two tags have the same name.

# Tags vs elements

A tag is a text between (and including) the angle brackets. A tag consists of
element name and optional attributes. A element consist of start tag, end tag
and everything in between.

# XML namespaces

XML uses namespaces to distinguish between two tags having the same name.

```
# here xsl is a namespace defined for the XSL stylesheet
<xsl:stylesheet version="1.0" xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform">
```

# DOM vs SAX

DOM is designed to build tree view of your document. DOM specification defines
several language neutral interfaces
- Node: This interface is the base dataype of your DOM document
- Document: This object contains the DOM representation of your XML
- Element: This interface represents an element in the XML document
- Attr: This interface represent an attribute of an element in an XML document
- Others: Text, Comment and Processing Instruction

When you parses an XML document using a DOM parser, this happens
- DOM parser creates objects (Node, Document, Element, Attr)
- Arranges the objects in a tree
- Parses the entire document before control returns to your code. Large document = long delay

SAX is leaner and faster. It is based on the concept of events. When SAX parses
the XML, it send events to client code. Client code is responsible to respond
to those events.

# How XSLT works?

Here is pseudo code for how XSLT works:

```
# 1 - Do I have nodes to process? Initially context is the root node
while elementsInContext():

    # 2 - Get the next element and matching templates
    nextElement       = getNextElement()
    matchingTemplates = getMatchingTemplates(element)

    # 3 - If one or more templates, pick the right one and process it
    if count(matchingTemplates) > 1:
        matchingTemplate = getMostSpecificTemplate(matchingTemplates)
    else:
        matchingTemplate = matchingTemplates[0]
    # recursive function call, processing a element with matching template can
    # call other templates.
    processElement(element, matchingTemplate)
```

## Most specific template

If their are two template matching the node, most specific one is selected. For
example: template with match = '/html/body/div/p' is more specific than
template with match = 'p'

## Document Order

If more than one nodes exists in a context, they are processed in the order
they exists in the document, this is called document order.

# XSLT structure

## xslt stylesheet Element

Defines the version and the XSL namespace.

```
<xslt:stylesheet version='1.0' xmlns:xsl='http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform'>
```

## xsl output Element

Defines the output of the XSLT transformation

```
<xsl:output type='html'/>
```

## xsl template Element

Defines the processing instruction for the matching nodes

```
<xsl:template match='/'>
    <xsl:apply-templates select='tagName'/>
</xsl:template>

<xsl:template match='/tagName'>
    <html>
        <body>
            <h1>
                <!-- Select the value of the element in the context -->
                <xsl:value-of select="."/>
            </h1>
        </body>
    </html>
</xsl:template>
```

# Built in templates

XSLT specs define a bunch of XSLT template which will process the inner nodes
in absence of the rule for the outer nodes. See this stack overflow link for
more information
    
    http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3360017/why-does-xslt-output-all-text-by-default

In short if you have a XML like this

```
<a>
    <b>
        <c>My Value</c>
    </b>
</a>
```

and XSLT like this

```
<xslt:stylesheet version='1.0' xmlns:xsl='http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform'>
    <xsl:template match = 'c'>
        <xsl:copy>
            <xsl:value-of select="."/>
        </xsl:copy>
    </xsl:template>
</xslt:stylesheet>
```

The XSLT does not have template for outer elements a and b, but the template of
c still works because of the default rules.
